les arrhythmies 
[USING PAN TOMPKIN’S METHOD, ECG SIGNAL PROCESSING AND
DIGNOSE VARIOUS DISEASES IN MATLAB
SHITAL L. PINGALE
Department Instrumentation and control Engineering, Name of organization – Cummins college of Engineering for women’s
Karvenagar, Pune, India(411052).]

3.Common Diseases of Heart
There are many disease related to heart some of them
as fallows-:
3.1 Common Diseases of Heart
i. Chest pain ,which could be caused by heart attack.
ii. Inflammation of the sac of heart.
iii. Shortness of breathing.
iv. Irregular heart beat(palpitation).
ECG recordings can be used as a diagnostic tool to
determine abnormalities in cardiac function or it can
be visualize the effects of cardiac tissue damage.
Abnormalities in the QRS complex indicate problems
in the ventricles or ventricular conduction. In normal
ECG, T wave is of positive amplitude but in abnormal
ECG, the T wave can be inverted having negative
amplitude. There are various abnormal ECG and some
ECG we discuss here:
3.1.1 i Sinus Bradycardia.
Bradycardia is a term to describe the heart beating
more slowly than normal. Sinus bradycardia can occur
in well-conditioned athletes and during sleep
relaxation. In the case of athletes, the heart muscle is
tremendously strong and efficient at pumping blood,
therefore, less contraction needed. During deep
relaxation, the body is at rest and requires less oxygen
consumption than during normal activity which
allows the heart rate to slow. However, sinus
bradycardia can also occur as a result of heart disease
or as a reaction to medication.
2.1.2 ii Sinus Tachycardia
Excessive heart rate above 100 beats per minute
(BPM) which originates from the SA node. Causes
include fright, stress, illness and exercise. It is
essential to identify one P for each QRS. It may be
difficult to differentiate a sinus tachyarrhythmia from
an atrial tachyarrhythmia.
2.1.3 iii Atrial Flutter
Atrial flutter is a condition where there are multiple
atrial contractions for every ventricular contraction. It
is caused by a single large electrical signal that
propagates around the atria. The rate of atrial
contraction can be between 200 and 350 beats per
minutes. The amount of blood being pumped by the
atria can be very small as a result of one side of the
atria being contracted while the other being relaxed.
The electrical signals enter the AV node at a rate that
is too rapid to create a ventricular contraction for every
atrial contraction. As a result, there are multiples
P-waves in the ECG for every QRS-T complex.
2.1.4 iv. Ventricular Flutter
In this cardiac arrhythmia, the verticals can be paced
at more than 200 beats per second. This can be
triggered by an extrasystole or ectopic pacemaker that
occurs in the ventricles. The pumping of blood
becomes extremely inefficient. There is no visible P
wave in the ECG recording and the QRS complex and
T wave are merged in regularly occurring waves with
a frequency between 180 to 250 beats per minute