In last years, the rapid development in information and communication technology, espacially in digital communications systems and hardware, have made it possible to introduce new ways of monitoring one's health. The hardware of communications and signal processing have become smaller and more powerfull. Making this an opportunity for businesses to design wearable and non-intrusive devices to monitor vital body signals. Such is the case for the heart activity, which can be monitored automatically by observing the ECG signal in real time. 
The objectives of our design and development project are first, to detect, digitilize and postprocess the ECG detected of the user in real time. Second, to classify the ECG detected as normal or presenting an arrhythmia. Third, is in case of the latter class, to notify the user of the necessity of seeking immediate medical attention. In other terms, our project deals with three different domains: Digital Signal Processing, Classification and Embedded-Real-Time software. 
To realize our project, we advanced in steps and testing the validity of our work along the way. First, we aqcuired the MIT-BIH ECG database and tested our sampling modules that enable us to get a discrete signal from a continuous wave format. Afterwards, we implemented and tested an offline and online Pan-Tompkins algorithm on samples from the database. Then, we build a classifier using the Support Vector Machine method and training with a stochastic gradient descent the ECG signals from the MIT-BIH database. Our classification was a binary classification because our goal was to determine if the person should seek a doctor or not, we do not care to determine the actual disease the patient has. Along the way, we tested to embark our code on the hardware that we bought to build the system. We tested the sensor, and tested converting the analog signal to a digital one through an STEM32F4, lastly we tested a realtime operating system on a Rasbperry Pi 3 B+.
However satisfied with the test results we are, there are some points where we can definetely improve on our work. First of all, we encountered serious time troubles throughout the work. We have not the accurate estimations on how long should the specification phase take. We found our selves pressured by time in the implementation and testing period. In future work, we will definitely fix a time table on how long the specification and solution design phases should take, because, there is very high probability that the solution on which one decides will show to be non fulfiling of one's expectations
We definitely believe our work can be expanded to inlvolvve more features. One obvious feature is to build a device that can capture nnultile vital signals. Also, a very useful feature is a smartphone cross plateform application that the user and his attending doctor can use to monitor the patient's vital signals.  
